README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">⌨️ 🦾 Zsh Copilot (without Codex)</h1>

<p align="center">
    AI in the command line.
</p>

<p align="center">
    <img src='https://github.com/tom-doerr/bins/raw/main/zsh_codex/zc4.gif'>
    <p align="center">
        You just need to write a comment or variable name and the AI will write the corresponding code.
    </p>
</p>


## What is it?

This is a ZSH plugin that enables you to use have autocompletion for bash commands. The plugin does not use like other provider OpenAI Codex but instead [Magnus]()


 OpenAI Codex is the AI that also powers GitHub Copilot.
To use this plugin you need to get access to OpenAI's [Codex API](https://openai.com/blog/openai-codex/).


## How do I install it?
### Manual Installation
1. Install the OpenAI package.
```
pip3 install openai
```

2. Download the ZSH plugin.

```
    $ git clone https://github.com/tom-doerr/zsh_codex.git ~/.oh-my-zsh/custom/plugins/zsh_codex 
```

3. Add the following to your `.zshrc` file.

Using oh-my-zsh:
```
    plugins=(zsh_codex)
    bindkey '^X' create_completion
```
Without oh-my-zsh:
```
    # in your/custom/path you need to have a "plugins" folder and in there you clone the repository as zsh_codex
    export ZSH_CUSTOM="your/custom/path"
    source "$ZSH_CUSTOM/plugins/zsh_codex/zsh_codex.plugin.zsh"
    bindkey '^X' create_completion
```

4. Create a file called `openaiapirc` in `~/.config` with your ORGANIZATION_ID and SECRET_KEY.

```
[openai]
organization_id = ...
secret_key = ...
```

5. Run `zsh`, start typing and complete it using `^X`!

### Fig Installation

<a href="https://fig.io/plugins/other/zsh_codex_tom-doerr" target="_blank"><img src="https://fig.io/badges/install-with-fig.svg" /></a>

## Troubleshooting 

### Unhandled ZLE widget 'create_completion'

```
zsh-syntax-highlighting: unhandled ZLE widget 'create_completion'
zsh-syntax-highlighting: (This is sometimes caused by doing `bindkey <keys> create_completion` without creating the 'create_completion' widget with `zle -N` or `zle -C`.)
```

Add the line 
```
zle -N create_completion
```
before you call `bindkey` but after loading the plugin (`plugins=(zsh_codex)`).

### Already exists and is not an empty directory
```
fatal: destination path '~.oh-my-zsh/custom/plugins'
```
Try to download the ZSH plugin again.
```
git clone https://github.com/tom-doerr/zsh_codex.git ~/.oh-my-zsh/custom/plugins/zsh_codex
```
---
<p align="center">
    <a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/TomDoerr" target="_blank"><img src="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/assets/img/custom_images/orange_img.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" style="height: 41px !important;width: 174px !important;box-shadow: 0px 3px 2px 0px rgba(190, 190, 190, 0.5) !important;-webkit-box-shadow: 0px 3px 2px 0px rgba(190, 190, 190, 0.5) !important;" ></a>
</p>

## More usage examples
<p align="center">
    <img src='https://github.com/tom-doerr/bins/raw/main/zsh_codex/update_insert/all.gif'>
    <p align="center">
    </p>
</p>

-------------------------------------------------------------------

[Fish Version](https://github.com/tom-doerr/codex.fish)

[Traffic Statistics](https://tom-doerr.github.io/github_repo_stats_data/tom-doerr/zsh_codex/latest-report/report.html)




## How it works

1. On keybind "^X" current terminal prompt is parsed into string 
2. String gets piped into Python file
3. Model gets string as input and prints bash command with highest likelihood 
4. Print gets printed in terminal

# Steps
- [ ] install miniconda with 3.9.7 py
- [ ] make a env running with this conda version
- [ ] install every package manually 
- [ ] next steps

# Notes
- Instead of using spacy==2.3.0 in requirements I was doing:
    - https://stackoverflow.com/a/71882460/14606987
torch==1.6.0
torchtext==0.4.0
torchvision==0.7.0 --> was all removed and instead  pip install torch torchvision

Commit message:

Minor changes in ReadMe file

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">⌨️ 🦾 Zsh Copilot (without Codex)</h1>

<p align="center">
    AI in the command line.
</p>

<p align="center">
    <img src='https://github.com/tom-doerr/bins/raw/main/zsh_codex/zc4.gif'>
    <p align="center">
        You just need to write a comment or variable name and the AI will write the corresponding code.
    </p>
</p>


## What is it?

This is a ZSH plugin that transforms descriptions of command line tasks to Bash syntax using open-sourced machine translation model that was a winner of a NeurIPS 2020's challenge (https://github.com/magnumresearchgroup/magnum-nlc2cmd). Unlike alternatives, the plugin does not require access to OpenAI Codex, and therefore is completely free. 

## How do I install it?

First, create conda environment from bash_translator.yml:
```
conda env create --file bash_translator.yml
```


### Manual Installation
1. Install the OpenAI package.
```
pip3 install openai
```

2. Download the ZSH plugin.

```
    $ git clone https://github.com/tom-doerr/zsh_codex.git ~/.oh-my-zsh/custom/plugins/zsh_codex 
```

3. Add the following to your `.zshrc` file.

Using oh-my-zsh:
```
    plugins=(zsh_codex)
    bindkey '^X' create_completion
```
Without oh-my-zsh:
```
    # in your/custom/path you need to have a "plugins" folder and in there you clone the repository as zsh_codex
    export ZSH_CUSTOM="your/custom/path"
    source "$ZSH_CUSTOM/plugins/zsh_codex/zsh_codex.plugin.zsh"
    bindkey '^X' create_completion
```

4. Create a file called `openaiapirc` in `~/.config` with your ORGANIZATION_ID and SECRET_KEY.

```
[openai]
organization_id = ...
secret_key = ...
```

5. Run `zsh`, start typing and complete it using `^X`!

### Fig Installation

<a href="https://fig.io/plugins/other/zsh_codex_tom-doerr" target="_blank"><img src="https://fig.io/badges/install-with-fig.svg" /></a>

## Troubleshooting 

### Unhandled ZLE widget 'create_completion'

```
zsh-syntax-highlighting: unhandled ZLE widget 'create_completion'
zsh-syntax-highlighting: (This is sometimes caused by doing `bindkey <keys> create_completion` without creating the 'create_completion' widget with `zle -N` or `zle -C`.)
```

Add the line 
```
zle -N create_completion
```
before you call `bindkey` but after loading the plugin (`plugins=(zsh_codex)`).

### Already exists and is not an empty directory
```
fatal: destination path '~.oh-my-zsh/custom/plugins'
```
Try to download the ZSH plugin again.
```
git clone https://github.com/tom-doerr/zsh_codex.git ~/.oh-my-zsh/custom/plugins/zsh_codex
```
---
<p align="center">
    <a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/TomDoerr" target="_blank"><img src="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/assets/img/custom_images/orange_img.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" style="height: 41px !important;width: 174px !important;box-shadow: 0px 3px 2px 0px rgba(190, 190, 190, 0.5) !important;-webkit-box-shadow: 0px 3px 2px 0px rgba(190, 190, 190, 0.5) !important;" ></a>
</p>

## More usage examples
<p align="center">
    <img src='https://github.com/tom-doerr/bins/raw/main/zsh_codex/update_insert/all.gif'>
    <p align="center">
    </p>
</p>

-------------------------------------------------------------------

[Fish Version](https://github.com/tom-doerr/codex.fish)

[Traffic Statistics](https://tom-doerr.github.io/github_repo_stats_data/tom-doerr/zsh_codex/latest-report/report.html)




## How it works

1. On keybind "^X" current terminal prompt is parsed into string 
2. String gets piped into Python file
3. The model gets a string as input and infers a bash command with highest likelihood as output
4. The terminal prompt gets replaced with the inferred command

# Steps
- [ ] install miniconda with 3.9.7 py
- [ ] make a env running with this conda version
- [ ] install every package manually 
- [ ] next steps

# Notes
- Instead of using spacy==2.3.0 in requirements I was doing:
    - https://stackoverflow.com/a/71882460/14606987
torch==1.6.0
torchtext==0.4.0
torchvision==0.7.0 --> was all removed and instead  pip install torch torchvision
